we're in the Buffalo Creek Recreation
Area Pike National Forest and Mount
Baker have a long history out here Keith
and Stu of the Front Range mountain bike
Patrol
they've been working out here about 15
years partnering at the u.s. Forest
Service and about three years ago or so
in 2008 we started walking and looking
for a new path what we want to do is
connect different Rock sections just
connecting down this Ridge the most
technical path we could find at us
the way we picked it out and then we
flagged it and went back and started
digging when you go to Buffalo Creek
there's Rock everywhere and to take
those features and to connect them into
a more technical trail it's just a lot
more fun that's why we did it all we had
was open ground boulders trees eggs and
nothing but opportunity we could put the
trail wherever we wanted this trail we
weren't really thinking with a
destination mine the goal of this trail
was to have fun along the way we looked
for every boulder or every Rock anything
that would just be fun to roll over and
we put the trail through it well if you
want to go someplace that's a little
more remote that uses all natural
features these aren't these are guide
bait features these aren't man-made
jumps we just push some rocks around
- to get the flow of the trail but for
the most part you're rolling over just
just natural rock that's why you
wouldn't go up there just had a good
enough raspberry ridge but here at the
earth section of raspberry ridge and
blackjack trail there's a little spur
that goes up to the top of the peak it's
the best view in this whole area so I
highly recommend anyone go up there and
if anyone wants to choose turn around
and go back down and raspberry raise
your cellphone on descent but here
onwards it's the blackjack trail and the
stakes are higher
we're its slot machine now I think
that's really rewarding about being
involved in a project like this is not
only do you get to write it at the end
but you get to know what went into it
and part of that is the creation of the
lines part of it is just moving the
rocks setting up the dirt the other
thing that's really cool is just talking
with all the people as your work and
thinking about what are we gonna call
this long shot so we're working on this
a common thing came up about how risky
it might be to to roll on some of these
features and the theme sort of kept
playing back and in the end we started
talking about gambling and trying to
work names of all these features on the
trail itself blackjack about just risks
that might be involved there cos we
ended up calling all the different walks
boobs everything has a name so as you go
along a trail he actually will see signs
and other features
takes a lot of partners to develop and
maintain trails in the area like buffalo
creek u.s. Forest Service has been a
great partner Dulles is a recreation
planner out here the Colorado Mountain
Front Range mountain bike patrol and we
also have great partners in the industry
we can reach site really has been great
they've been promoting the events
dedicating staff time out here so it
takes bunch groups coming together to
get something like this going and a
project to be successful we care about
all kinds of cycling was mountain biking
Road biking or bike trails or bike lanes
to commute on everybody that works here
wants to give back everybody works here
has a passion for the bike and wants
everybody to have a passion for a
bicycle whether you're commuting to work
or going mountain biking for the day you
just want to see more people out riding
bikes and so that's why we go out and
build trail and participate in
everything from a National Bike Summit
to to just local work right around the
shop to get people on your bikes
sorry for this
the cool thing with mountain biking is
you can always improve you can always do
better at your bike handling skills
whether it's climbing or descending or
learning to take a drop or or testing
yourself you kind of look over the edge
and wonder I I think I can do that today
and sometimes you can and you do things
that you've never thought you could do
and that challenge is what keeps you
going with the mountain bike